---
code: CSC 414
title: Computer System Performance Evaluation
dpt: Computer Science
lvl: 400
set: 2019-2020
lecturer: Dr. Mr. Babatunde
semester: 2
resources: [
    {
        name: "Performance Evaluation",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=1jL6DFLJu8J6WKgZy8D_XjCwIQoP-ftMn"
    }
]
---

## Introduction

Performance Evaluation is used to compare design alternatives when building new systems. Lack of adequate performance evaluation can lead to bad decisions, which can result in inefficient use of resources or a system not been able to accomplish mission objectives.

_Performance is a key criterion in the design, producurement, and use of computer systems._. Hence, the goal of computer systems enginners and users is to get the highest performance at a given cost. To achieve this goal, a basic knowledge of performance evaluation terminology and techniques is required.

### Computer System Performance

This is characterized by the amount of useful work accomplished by a computer system compared to the time and resources used.

According to **Arnold Allen**, the work _performance_ in computer performance means
> how well is the computer doing the work it is supposed to do.

## The Art of Performance Evaluation

Every evaluation requiers an intimate knowledge of the system being modeled and a careful selection of methodology and tools.
 
### Common Mistakes in Performance Evaluation

1. **No Goals**: Any performance evaluation without clear goals is bound to fail. A model must be developed with a particular goal in mind.
2. **Biased Goals**: This is a situation whereby performance is evaluated based on pure beliefs instead of conclusions of results.
3. **Unsystematic Approach**: This is when analysts adopt an unsystematic approach whereby they select system parameters and metrics based on individual judgement. This often leads inaccurate conclusions.
4. **Analysis without Understanding the problem**: Some analysts feel that nothing has been achieved until a model is constructed and some results are obtained. But that's not the case. Before a model should be built, there should be proper definition of the problem to be solved.
5. **Incorrect Performance Metrics**: A _metric_ refers to the criterion used to quantify the performance of a system. Hence, incorrect metrics would result in incorrect evaluations.

Check out more common mistakes in the material above (Performance Evaluation)
