---
code: CSC 405
title: Computer Graphics
dpt: Computer Science
lvl: 400
set: 2019-2020
lecturer: Dr. Mr. Babatunde
semester: 1
resources: [
    {
        name: "Computer Graphics Introduction",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=18_nH7GN_3bW_f4AbfTu2024o9mUueaRC"
    },
    {
        name: "Display Devices",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=18j4jy_2mCfVae9tnW_2r7UPCFrBYZCSn"
    },
    {
        name: "DDA 2",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=18wEKs8SqdlfheBrTV0coGSbvAvqoAgPn"
    },
    {
        name: "Hardware Concepts",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=18l73e2VNm-YEEeebFzBW-9uL82Lpq_na"
    },
    {
        name: "Review Graphics",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=18u3ANzX7F6A0XJ8SV5MWSPbnH0aOyhn7"
    },
    {
        name: "3D Transformation Notes",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/open?id=1DV2H6nRscF6e039yR-xykqSrHY-K86uv"
    },
    {
        name: "Circle Generation Algorithm Notes",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1LGZR-H85sHh9hv135LG7l0M4TLDBFnlM/view?usp=drivesdk"
    },
    {
        name: "Exam Questions 2019/2020",
        link: ""
    }
]
---

## Algorithms

### Line Generation Algorithm

1. DDA
2. Bresenham's Algorithm
3. Midpoint Algorithm

### 2D Transformations

1. Translation
2. Scaling
3. Shearing
4. Reflection
5. Rotation

### Boundary Fill Algorithm

### 3D Transformations

1. Translation
2. Scaling
3. Shearing
4. Reflection
5. Rotation

### Circle Generation Algorithm

1. Midpoint Algorithm

-----

## What is C.G?
Computer Graphics is the act of using computers as a rendering and sketching tool for the generation and manipulation of images.

It is the act of drawing images on a computer with the use of programming.

C.G is represented with pixels (picture elements).

Pixels have two characteristics
- Color of each pixel
- Location of each pixel

A **pixel number** is referred to as resolution hence the higher the pixel, the higher the resolution.
Resolution is the degree of fineness with which an image is created. It refers to pixel spacing  - the distance from one pixel to the next pixel.

**Rendering or Image Synthesis** is the automatic process of generating a photorealistic or non-photorealistic image from a 2D or 3D model by means of computer programs.

-----

*From TutorialsPoint*<br/>

### Cathode Ray Tube

The primary output device in a graphical system is the video monitor. The main element of a video monitor is the Cathode Ray Tube (CRT). The operation of CRT is very simple:

1. The electron gun emits a beam of electrons (cathode rays).
2. The electron beam passes through focusing and deflection systems that direct it towards specified positions on the phosphor-coated screen.
3. When the beam hits the screen, the phosphor emits a small spot of light at each position contacted by the electrom beam.
4. It redraws the picture by directing the electron beam back over the same screen points quickly.

There are two ways by which objects can be displayed on a screen:

#### 1. Raster Scan

In a raster scan system, the electron beam is swept across the screen, one row at a time from top to bottom. As the electron beam moves across each row, the beam intensity is turned on and off to create a pattern of illuminated spots.

Picture definition is stored in memory area called **Refresh Buffer** or **Frame Buffer** which holds the set of intensity values for all screen points. Stored intensity values are then retrieved from here and **painted** on the screen one row (scan line) at a time.

Each screen point is referred to as **pixel (picture element)** or **pel**. At the end of each scan line, the electron beam returns to the left side of the screen to begin displaying the next scan line.

#### 2. Random Scan (Vector Scan)

Here, the electron beam is directed only to the part of the screen where the picture is to be drawn rather than scanning from left to right and top to bottom. It is also called **vector display**, **stroke-writing display**, or **calligraphic display**.

Picture definition is stored as a set of line-drawing commands in an area of memory referred to as the **refresh display file**. To display a specified picture, the system cycles through the set of commands in the display file, drawing each  component line in turn. After all the line-drawing commands are processed, the system cycles back to the first command on the list.

Random-Scan displays are designed to draw all the component lines of a picture 30 to 60 times per second.

### Polygon Fill Algorithm

#### Scan Line Algorithm

This algorithm works by intersecting scan line with polygon edges and fills the polygon between pairs of intersections.

-  **Step 1**: Find out the Ymin and Ymax from the given polygon.
-  **Step 2**: Scan line intersects with each edge of the polygon from Ymin to Ymax. Name each intersection point of the polygon.
-  **Step 3**: Sort the intersection point in the increasing order of X coordinate.
-  **Step 4**: Fill all those pair of coordinates that are inside polygons and ignore the alternate pairs.

#### Flood Fill Algorithm

Sometimes we come across an object where we want to fill the area and its boundary with different colors. We can paint such objects with a specified interior color instead of searching for particular boundary color as in boundary filling algorithm.

Instead of relying on the boundary of the object, it relies on the fill color. In other words, it replaces the interior color of the object with the fill color. When no more pixels of the original interior color exist, the algorithm is completed.

Once again, this algorithm relies on the Four-connect or Eight-connect method of filling in the pixels. But instead of looking for the boundary color, it is looking for all adjacent pixels that are a part of the interior.

#### Boundary Fill Algorithm

This algorithm works as its name. This algorithm picks a point inside an object and starts to fill until it hits the boundary of the object. The color of the boundary and the color that we fill should be different for this algorithm to work.

In this algorithm, we assume that color of the boundary is same for the entire object. This algorithm can be implemented by **4-connected** or **8-connected** pixels.  

##### 4-Connected Polygon

In this technique, we are putting the pixels above, below, to the right and to the left side of the current pixels and this process will continue until we find a boundary with different color.

####### Algorithm

-  **Step 1**: Initialize the value of speed point (**seedx**, **seedy**), **fcolor** and **dcol**.
-  **Step 2**: Define the boundary values of the polygon.
-  **Step 3**: Check if the current seed point is of default color, then repeat the steps 4 and 5 till the boundary pixels reached.
-  **Step 4**: Change the default color with the fill color at the seed point.
-  **Step 5**: Recursively follow the procedure with four neighborhood points.
- **Step 6**: Exit.

##### 8-Connected Polygon

In this technique, we are putting pixels above, below, right and left side of the current pixels as we were doing in 4-connected technique.

In addition to this, we are also putting pixels in diagonals so that entire area of the current pixel is covered. This process will continue until we find a boundary with different color.

####### Algorithm

Same as **4-Connected Polygon**

-----

### Applications of Computer Graphics
- Display of information
- Graphic Design
- User interfaces
- Design professionals
- Computer Simulation
- Computer aided design
- Video games
- Digital art
- Virtual reality
- Web design
- Animation software
- Paint programs.

**A pixel** is the smallest object or color spot that can be displayed and addressed as a monitor.

## HARDWARE CONCEPT
### Input
These are devices which users uses to generate necessary instruction or data ffro creating graphics e.g keyboard, mouse, trackball, joystick, touch panel and so on. Based on logical interaction types, the input devices can be classified as:
- Locator device
- Pick device
- Valuator device
- Keyboard or text input device
- Choice device

**Taplex:** It has a digitizer which is a component that picks points on an object
<br/>
**Touch Panels:** Allows users to touch parts of an object through screens

### Display Systems
These are devices through which graphics are related e.g CRT based display, liquid crystal, LED, plasma ased display and stereoscopic display.
The main output device is VDU -  Visual Display Unit. The CRT - Cathode Ray Tube is the main component of the VDU.

Common types of display systems
- Raster Scan display
- Random scan display
- Direct view storage tube
- 3D viewing devices
- Stereoscope and virtual reality system.
The display systems are often referred to as **Video Monitor or Video displaying unit**.

**Aspect Ratio:** is the ratio of the number of X pixels to the number of Y pixels. The standard AR of PCs is 4:3

### RASTER SCAN
The electron beam is swept accross the screen, one row at a time from top to bottom. Picture definition is stored in a memory area called the **Refresh Buffer** or **frame Buffer**.

#### Random Scan (Vector Scan)
The electron beam is directed only to the part of the screen where the picture is to be drawn rather than scanning from left to right. 	Picture definition is stored as a set of line drawing commands in an area of memory referred to as the **refresh display file**<br/>
There are two ways to display object on screen.
- Raster Scan
- Random Scan

### Cathode Ray Tube
- Electron gun emits a beam of electrons (cathode rays)
- The electron beam passes through focusing and deflection system that directs it towards specified positions on the phosphorocited screen.
- When the beam hits the screen, the phosphor emits a small spot of light at each position contacted by the electrom beam.
- It reduces the picture by directing the electron beam back over the same screen points quickly.

## LINE GENERATION ALGORITHM
A line connects two points. Line drawing algorithm is a graphical algorithm for approximating a line segment on discrete graphical media.
Discrete media such as pixel based displays and printers.

**Bitmap:** refers to series of bits that represents a rasterized graphic image each pixel being represented as a group of bits.

### Digital Differential Algorithm (DDA)
The DDA is a simple line generation algorithm used for the rasterization of lines, triangles and polygons.

#### Advantages of DDA
- Simple algorithm does not require special skills for implementation.
- It is a faster method for calculating pixel positions than the direct use of equation ***y = mx + b***
- It is independent of programming language
- It eliminates the multiplication in the equation by making use of raster characteristics.

#### Disadvantages
- It is consuming and expensive
- Rounding off is time consuming
- Pixels drift farther apart if line is relatively larger
- Floating point addition is still needed
- Precision loss because of rounding off.

### Bresenhams Line Drawing Algorithm
This is an algorithm that determines the points of an n-dimensional raster that should be selected in order to form a close approximation to a straight line between two points.

### Difference between DDA and Bresenham Algorithm (BA)

1. DDA uses floating points while BA uses fixed points.
2. DDA uses multiplication and division in its operations while BA uses additions and subtractions.
3. DDA is slow compared to BA in line drawing.
4. DDA is more expensive than BA.
5. DDA is not as efficient an accurate as BA.
6. Drawing circles and curves is not as accurate in DDA when compared to BA.
7. DDA rounds off the coordinates to integers that is nearest to the line while BA doesn't, rather it takes incremental values in its operations.
