---
code: CSC 409
title: Artificial Intelligence
dpt: Computer Science
lvl: 400
set: 2019-2020
lecturer: Mrs Ajao
semester: 1
resources: [
    {
        name: "Agents in Artificial Intelligence",
        link: 'https://drive.google.com/open?id=1SdbVQMhSpRDoTVQfYqRhIVolaCpkG6N-'
    },
    {
        name: "Artificial Intelligence Notes",
        link: 'https://drive.google.com/open?id=1Jm0XfxIMFJUsHgw9ogQqTJVgroWDJjOj'
    },
    {
        name: "CptS 440 / 540 Artificial Intelligence",
        link: 'https://drive.google.com/open?id=1H9is0_M1qdHmTs240rUS478cSF32A7ll'
    },
    {
        name: "Natural Language Processing Tutorial (Video)",
        link: "https://drive.google.com/file/d/1IQZAbZJRQ1HhNipBCA7dULe8R3ICfJHP/view?usp=drivesdk"
    }
]
---
## Assignments

1. Why will a taxi-driver need a partially observable environment?
2. How do you determine if a machine is intelligent enough.
3. Study DFS and explain how DFS can be implemented in Stack
4. Learn on Depth limited Search and Iterative Deepening Search
5. Learn Natural Language Processing (NLP), Pattern Recognition, Machine Learning and Expert Systems.
6. Learn Best First Search, Greedy Search, A* Search and Uniform Cost Search.
7. Application Areas of Propositional Logic
8. Knowledge Representation in AI.
9. Resolutions in AI.

*Notes here are similar to the second resource shared above!*

## What is Artificial Intelligence?

This is a branch of science which deals with helping machines find solutions to complex problems in a more human friendly fashion.

### Importance of AI

- Game Playing
- Speech Recognition
- Computer Vision
- Understanding Natural Language
- Expert System
- Heuristic Classification

### Applications of AI

- Consumer Marketing
- Machine Translation
- Identification Technology
- Internet Agent
- Robotic & Navigation, e.t.c

### Goals of AI

To develop,

- machines that behave
- systems that learn, demonstrate, explain and advice its users
- systems that understand, think and behave like human.

## What is Intelligence?

Can be described as the ability to infer information, and to retain it as knowledge to be applied towards adaptive behaviors within an environment or context.

### Constitutes of Intelligence

- Reasoning
- Perception
- Learning
- Solving Problems

Learn about the constitutes [in this documentation](https://www.britannica.com/technology/artificial-intelligence)

### Types of Intelligence

- Linguistic Intelligence
- Spatial Intelligence
- Musical Intelligence
- Interpersonal Intelligence
- Intra-personal Intelligence

More information of the types [in this documentation](https://benchpartner.com/types-of-intelligence-in-artificial-intelligence-ai/)

## Agents

An agent is anything that can perceive its environment through **sensors** and acts upon that environment through **effectors**.

## Problem Solving Techniques in AI

A problem is a collection of information that the agent will use to decide what to do.

- **State:** the state of the world in which the search agent finds itself
- **Start State:** initial state from where the search agent begins
- **Goal State:** also regarded as optimal state i.e the intended solution unto which an agent is designed to reach.
- **Actions:** all steps taken to reaching a goal state
- **Solution:** The path in the search tree from the starting state to the goal state
- **Cost Function:** a function that assigns a cost to a path. The cost of a path is the sum of the costs of the individual actions along the path. It is denoted by ***g***
- **State Space:** set of all states present in a problem.
<<<<<<< HEAD

## Natural Language Processing (NLP)

*From the video on NLP that the lecturer shared...*

NLP is an automated way to understand and analyze natural human languages and extract information from such data by applying machine algorithms.

### Why NLP?

The main objective of NLP is to understand various languages, process them and extract useful information from them.

### NLP Terminologies

- **Word Boundaries:** determines where one word ends and the other begins.
- **Tokenization:** technique to split words, phrases and idioms.
- **Stemming:** a process to map words to their roots. It is useful for searching synonyms and extensively used in search engines.
- **Tf-idf:** numerical value which represents term frequency and inverse document frequency.
- **Semantic Analysis:** technique used to compare phrases & idioms in a set of documents to extract meaning.
- **Disambiguation:** determine meanings and sense of words (context vs intent).
- **Topic Models:** statistical model for finding abstract topics which occur in a collection of documents.
=======
>>>>>>> 1fbb41920a912ab6d0dc1baa0340fdfeed4bfbb7
